INFO PACKET FOR DIGITAL CULTURES LAB

Current Projects (Research-based):

Mapping Seth: Dominion City as Heritage District
Comics and Document Use
Graphixia
BCARIN
Unibug

In development (Technical assistance):

Immigration Web Interface
The Douglas College Training Group Interactive Web Profile

Support Structures:

Funding in place for student curatorship to priovide admin assistance and work with the lab on coordinating projects, setting parameters, and reverse-mentorship with faculty.
Hacking the Academy Sessions (soon to be open to the public)

Memberships:

Member of CenterNet: "centerNet is an international network of digital humanities centers formed for cooperative and collaborative action to benefit digital humanities and allied fields in general, and centers as humanities cyberinfrastructure in particular. It developed from a meeting hosted by the U.S. National Endowment for the Humanities and the University of Maryland, College Park, April 12-13, 2007 in Washington, D.C., and is a response to the American Council of Learned Societies report on Cyberinfrastructure for the Humanities and Social Sciences, published in 2006. Since its inception in April 2007, centerNet has added over 200 members from about 100 centers in 19 countries. Regional centerNet affiliates have been established in Asia Pacific, Europe, North America, and the U.K. and Ireland, each with a steering committee. In  2009, centerNet became a founding member with DARIAH, CLARIN, PROJECT BAMBOO, and ADHO of CHAIN: the Coalition of Humanities and Arts Infrastructures and Networks. In June 2010, centerNet formally affiliated with the Consortium of Humanities Centers and Institutes (CHCI) in order to pursue an ambitious agenda of initiatives on matters of mutual interest.  Together, the two organizations hope to foster disciplinary innovation and transformation in the humanities.

If you think your center is a digital humanities center, in whole or in part, then we’d be glad to have you join the network. We leave the definition of “digital humanities” up to you, but we intend to be inclusive, and we know that there will be cross-over into the social sciences, media studies, digital arts, and other related areas. This might include humanities centers with a strong interest in or focus on digital platforms.  One caveat—a “center” should be larger than a single project, and it should have some history or promise of persistence."




Outlook for 2012-13 Year:

Apply for funding from SSHRC
Run major conference on comics and multimodial world
Get Scalar projects going. 