Dear Funders,

Thanks for supporting the Digital Cultures Lab (DCL). Your support helps us undertake some great projects and gives us the ability to equip students with a wide-range of experiences—both digital and traditional. This year was dominated by our mapping New Westminster project. We’re not ready to go live yet, but we have collected all the materials we need, looked at and implemented some on-line tools, and most importantly set up learning and research opportunities for students across a number of disciplines. Our student curators have worked with Anthropologists, Biologists, Literary Scholars, Sociologists, and Historians to examine the different elements that feed into mapping Columbia St. in New Westminster. We’ve mapped out the historical sites of Columbia St., merged them with places of artistic relevance—both inspirational and residential—then layered geological and biological data underneath it all. It’s been quite an undertaking. 

On occasion, the mapping Columbia St. project has had to wait while we have worked to set up the web presence for the British Columbia Applied Research and Innovation Network (BCARIN)—a collaborative research network of all the colleges in British Columbia; collected and published an on-line resource for digital pedagogy geared toward student interests; ran workshops on the use of social media in academic contexts; and implemented a website for tracking beetles in community gardens for the User Network for Insect Biology in the Urban Garden (UNIBUG) project housed at the Centre for Urban Ecology.    

Over the summer, we’ll be consolidating and reviewing what we have accumulated over this past year and planning a way forward for next year. There’s lots of great stuff in the pipeline, including a course proposal that integrates some of the tools and skills we’ve been working with and hopefully points us in the direction of building a program around the things we do in the DCL. The program will focus on developing is something we’re calling Global Humanities — a program that will give students the traditional markers of critical thinking and writing combined with a set of practical digital skills in the hope that they can become meaningful global citizens. We’ll also be participating in—and managing the websites for—The British Columbia Studies annual conference and the Comics and the Multimodal World conference, both of which explore issues and areas with which we are engaged. Finally, we’ll be implementing year two of our strategic plan, which means ramping up workshops that teach digital literacy and a series of lectures—delivered by students to students—about alternative careers for traditional disciplines in the Humanities. 

With this recap of our work so far this year, we’d like to ask for your support again. The cost of a student curator is $1500 a semester (roughly the cost of student tuition per semester). This year, we’re trying to raise a total of $6000 so that we can support two students for the academic year, helping push our current projects to completion and initiate some new ones that are both ground-breaking and experimental. Our inaugural student curator, Jenelle Davies, has set the bar high, even winning the Leader of the Year award (you can read about her here: http://www.douglasishere.com/2013/04/students-honoured-for-leadership.html). We’d love to encourage more students like Jenelle to engage with emerging digital contexts and give them a head start as they move up the ranks of the academy into third and fourth year degree programs. Our curators work across a wide-range of academic disciplines—often well outside their own—and with some of Douglas College’s best faculty members. Because they are housed at the DCL and not with a particular instructor or discipline, our curators have a unique experience and acquire an incredibly rich understanding of the academy and the skills that are applied within it to better engage with our emerging digital world. These first and second year students contribute both to the production of knowledge and the overall climate of innovation at the College while learning about emerging digital applications in an ever-increasing number of disciplines. In short, they are gaining experience in the practical application of expertise at the introductory level of their post-secondary studies that will prepare them for careers in the emerging digital economy. 

The amount of your donation is entirely up to you and every dollar you contribute goes directly to support the DCL and its ever-expanding roster of student curators. Your continued support provides a student with academic experience that is both relevant and rewarding. At the same time, your donation helps the DCL create an exciting climate within a sometimes restrictive institution for credentialing that is rigorously experimental and innovative while it encourages playfulness and curiosity for students and faculty who are finding their way in a brave new world. 

Feel free to circulate this report to others you think might be interested in supporting the DCL. We’ll take all the help we can get!

Cheers, and thanks again for supporting the Digital Cultures Lab,


David N. Wright
Director


