Our Mandate

The Digital Cultures Lab is a collaborative and multidisciplinary group of scholars and students that encourages and supports experimentation with emerging digital tools. At is core, the Digital Cultures Lab is an adaptable and responsive group that prioritizes the leveraging of digital technologies to explore new applications for Applied and Humanities-based research. At the same time, the Lab's broad-based expertise helps it support the application of digital technologies in a number of community contexts, giving its student "curators" practical experience with open-source digital tools. By utilizing digital technologies across a number of corss-disciplinary projects, The Digital Cultures Lab provides technical and disciplinary expertise across a wide range of practical applications.

To promote--through peedagogy, research, cataloguing, and community development--all forms 


To promote--through pedagogy, research, cataloguing, and community development--all forms of expression falling under the rubric of graphic narrative.To provide support for members who wish to conduct research, develop pedagogical methodologies, and organize events relating to, or having to do with, the creation, dissemination, and interpretation of graphic narratives.To promote reciprocal relationships between communities and academic institutions wanting to engage in the creation, dissemination, and interpretation of graphic narratives.To foster sustained investigation into the cultural impact of graphic narratives

About Us:

The Digital Cultures Lab is a team of researchers at Douglas College and beyond who work with digital media in higher education. The team is a collective of skill sets ranging from the discipline-based--critical analysis, problem solving, development of research questions--to the technical--computer coding languages, technological implimentation, digital workflows. We work to create a space to explore the effect emerging digital technologies are having on the practices of teaching, research, and communication. Our projects emphasize digital components or explore multimodal forms of communication.

